# CoolPool Definitions and Guidelines

**Definitions**

*_Organic Independence_*: Organic independence is achieved when a
stake-pool-member of the CoolPool Consortium has attained a stake
of at least 7 million ADA AND at least 7 delegators -- not
including stake from the pool operator, nor stake from any other
CoolPool consortium member -- for at least three epochs.

*_Potentially Organic Independent Pool_*: a pool within the Cool
 Pool Consortium that is on a trajectory to achieve *_Organic
 Independence_*, as judged by the majority of Cool Pool
 Consortium members via a Telegram vote.  Note that a
 *_Potentially Organic Independent Pool_* is expected, but not
 guaranteed, to achieve *_Organic Independence_* in the
 relatively near future.

**Guidelines**

1. Trust each other and emphasize good communication throughout
the process, recognizing that perfect communication is
impossible.

2. Identify a schedule, but be flexible, recognizing goal is
*_Organic Independence_*.

3. All CoolPool Consortium members shall continue to delegate
until all pools achieve *_Organic Independence_*.  This may mean
redelegating if initially apparent *_Organic Independence_* turns
out to be a false positive.

4. The false-positive corner-case in guideline 3 not
withstanding, once a pool in the CoolPool Consortium has achieved
*_Organic Independence_*, the pool will be out of the rotation to
continue receiving delegation from the CoolPool Consortium, but
it's operator will still be responsible for continuing to
delegate the originally agreed upon stake to other stake pools
within the CoolPool Consortium, on the agreed upon flexible
schedule, until ALL OF THE POOLS IN THE GROUP have achieved
*_Organic Independence_* (assuming the operator is managing the
pool efficiently).

5. Using good communication practices via their Telegram channel,
once it is recognized that a CoolPool Consortium member pool is
*_Potentially Organic Independent Pool_*, the other CoolPool
Consortium members will attempt to remove their stake from the
*_Potentially Organic Independent Pool_* in such a manner as to
keep the amount of stake in the *_Potentially Organic Independent
Pool_* generally increasing.  This requires communication and
good timing, so that at the time a new injection of stake is made
to the *_Potentially Organic Independent Pool_*, a Cool Pool
Consortium member whose delegated stake/partial stake is covered
by the new injection of stake can remove/rotate his/her
full/partial delegation to the *_Potentially Organic Independent
Pool_*.

